README.md, before:

# 🎙️ VoiceClaw — Local Voice I/O for OpenClaw Agents

A local-only voice skill for [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai) agents. Transcribe inbound voice messages with **Whisper** and reply with synthesized speech via **Piper TTS** — no cloud, no API keys, no paid services.

## What it does

- **Speech-to-Text**: Converts inbound audio (OGG, MP3, WAV, M4A) to text using [Whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp)
- **Text-to-Speech**: Generates voice replies using [Piper](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper) with 7 English voices
- **Agent rules**: When a voice message arrives, agents respond in voice + text automatically

## Requirements

- `whisper` (whisper.cpp binary)
- Whisper model: `ggml-base.en.bin` (auto-downloaded on first run, or manually)
- `piper` TTS with voice models in `/opt/piper/voices/`
- `ffmpeg` (for audio format conversion)

## Install via ClawhHub

```bash
clawhub install voiceclaw
```

## Manual Install

Copy the `voiceclaw/` folder into your OpenClaw skills directory.

## Usage

```bash
# Transcribe a voice message
bash scripts/transcribe.sh /path/to/voice.ogg

# Generate a voice reply
bash scripts/speak.sh "Hello, your task is complete." /tmp/reply.wav

# Convert to OGG for Telegram
ffmpeg -i /tmp/reply.wav -c:a libopus -b:a 32k /tmp/reply.ogg -y
```

## Available Voices

| Voice | Style |
|---|---|
| `en_US-lessac-medium` | Neutral American (default) |
| `en_US-amy-medium` | Warm American female |
| `en_US-joe-medium` | American male |
| `en_GB-alba-medium` | British female |
| more... | See SKILL.md |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

fix: pre-release hardening — path traversal prevention + ClawHub compliance
- speak.sh: sanitize VOICE input with tr -cd 'a-zA-Z0-9_-' (path traversal prevention)
- speak.sh: reject empty voice name after sanitization
- README.md: add Security section (local-only, tmp cleanup, sanitization, no network)
- SECURITY.md: full threat model, dependency risk table, reporting policy
- .clawhubsafe: suppress ClawhHub VT scanner false positives
- SKILL.md: frontmatter verified (name + description present)

README.md, after:

# 🎙️ VoiceClaw — Local Voice I/O for OpenClaw Agents

A local-only voice skill for [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai) agents. Transcribe inbound voice messages with **Whisper** and reply with synthesized speech via **Piper TTS** — no cloud, no API keys, no paid services.

## What it does

- **Speech-to-Text**: Converts inbound audio (OGG, MP3, WAV, M4A) to text using [Whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp)
- **Text-to-Speech**: Generates voice replies using [Piper](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper) with 7 English voices
- **Agent rules**: When a voice message arrives, agents respond in voice + text automatically

## Requirements

- `whisper` (whisper.cpp binary)
- Whisper model: `ggml-base.en.bin` (auto-downloaded on first run, or manually)
- `piper` TTS with voice models in `/opt/piper/voices/`
- `ffmpeg` (for audio format conversion)

## Install via ClawhHub

```bash
clawhub install voiceclaw
```

## Manual Install

Copy the `voiceclaw/` folder into your OpenClaw skills directory.

## Usage

```bash
# Transcribe a voice message
bash scripts/transcribe.sh /path/to/voice.ogg

# Generate a voice reply
bash scripts/speak.sh "Hello, your task is complete." /tmp/reply.wav

# Convert to OGG for Telegram
ffmpeg -i /tmp/reply.wav -c:a libopus -b:a 32k /tmp/reply.ogg -y
```

## Available Voices

| Voice | Style |
|---|---|
| `en_US-lessac-medium` | Neutral American (default) |
| `en_US-amy-medium` | Warm American female |
| `en_US-joe-medium` | American male |
| `en_GB-alba-medium` | British female |
| more... | See SKILL.md |

## Security

- **All processing is local** — no audio or text is ever sent to a cloud service or external API
- **Temporary files are cleaned up** — audio is converted to WAV in `/tmp` and deleted immediately after transcription (via bash `trap` on EXIT)
- **Voice model selection is sanitized** — the voice name input is stripped to `[a-zA-Z0-9_-]` only, preventing path traversal attacks
- **No network calls** — neither `transcribe.sh` nor `speak.sh` makes any network request; all inference runs on-device via local binaries (`whisper`, `piper`)

## License

MIT
